Overview of Streaming Technologies
Let us understand overview of technologies that are used in building streaming pipelines. Streaming technologies can be broadly categorized into
Ingestion
Processing in real time
Databases
Visualization
There are also frameworks for building streaming pipelines.
Ingestion
There are many technologies which are used in ingesting data in real time.
Logstash
Flume
Kafka
Kinesis
and more
Real time processing
As the data come through tools like logstash, flume, kafka etc we might want to perform standard transformations such as data cleansing, standardization, lookups, joins, aggregations, sorting, ranking etc. While some of the data ingestion tools are capable of some of the transformations they do not come up with all the features. Also the ingestion might get delayed and make the flow unstable. Hence we need to use the tools which are built for performing transformations as the data is streamed. Here are some of the prominent tools.
Spark Streaming or Spark Structured Streaming (a module built as part of Spark)
Flink
Storm
and more
Databases
Once the data is processed, we have to store data in databases to persist and build visualization layer on top of the processed data. We can use
RDBMS – such as Oracle, MySQL, Postgres etc
Data Warehouses – such as Teradata, Redshift etc
NoSQL databases – such as HBase, Cassandra, MongoDB, DynamoDB etc
Search based databases – such as Elastic Search
Visualization
Visualization is typically done as part of the application development using standard frameworks.
d3js
Kibana
Standard reporting tools such as Tableau
and more
Frameworks
As we discuss about different moving parts in building streaming pipelines now let us get into frameworks. Most of these frameworks do not have visualization included.
ELK
Elastic Search (Database)
Logstash (streaming and processing logs)
Kibana (Visualization)
HDF – Streaming services running behind NiFi
MapR Streams – Streaming services running on MapR cluster
AWS Services
DynamoDB (Database)
s3 (persistent storage of flat file format)
Kinesis (streaming and processing logs)
We have highlighted some of the popular frameworks. Almost all the top vendors such as Cloudera, Google, Microsoft Azure etc have necessary services to build streaming pipelines.
